Multi-cloud : 
A fourth, and increasingly likely scenario is a multi-cloud scenario. In a multi-cloud scenario, you use multiple public cloud providers.
 Maybe you use different features from different cloud providers. Or maybe you started your cloud journey with one provider and are in the
 process of migrating to a different provider. Regardless, in a multi-cloud environment you deal with two (or more) public cloud providers
 and manage resources and security in both environments.

Azure Arc :
Azure Arc is a set of technologies that helps manage your cloud environment. Azure Arc can help manage your cloud environment,
whether it's a public cloud solely on Azure, a private cloud in your datacenter, a hybrid configuration, or even a multi-cloud environment
running on multiple cloud providers at once.

Azure VMware Solution : 
What if you’re already established with VMware in a private cloud environment but
want to migrate to a public or hybrid cloud? Azure VMware Solution lets you run your VMware workloads in Azure
with seamless integration and scalability.

PAAS :
Analytics or business intelligence: Tools provided as a service with PaaS allow organizations to analyze and mine their data,
finding insights and patterns and predicting outcomes to improve forecasting, product design decisions, investment returns,
and other business decisions.

While Azure PowerShell uses PowerShell commands, the Azure CLI uses Bash commands.

azure load balancer : 
distribute traffic to multiple servers in one or datacenter,if datacenter is not available it will route to available datacenter only

Point-to-site virtual private network connections are from a computer outside your organization back into your corporate network.
In this case, the client computer initiates an encrypted VPN connection to connect to the Azure virtual network.

Site-to-site virtual private networks link your on-premises VPN device or gateway to the Azure VPN gateway in a virtual network.
In effect, the devices in Azure can appear as being on the local network. The connection is encrypted and works over the internet.

Azure ExpressRoute provides a dedicated private connectivity to Azure that doesn't travel over the internet.
ExpressRoute is useful for environments where you need greater bandwidth and even higher levels of security.

User-defined routes (UDR) allow you to control the routing tables between subnets within a virtual network or between virtual networks.
This allows for greater control over network traffic flow.

vertical scaling :
upgrading to the bigger server

horizontal scaling :
add more servers of the same size
adding resources are controlled by this type of scaling

azure vm scale sets :
automatically increase or decreases of the demand source

DDoS Protection Standard does provide real-time attack metrics.

region is a group of multiple datacenters have 58 regions over 140 conuntries

Geography is discreet market of two or more regions that preserves data residency ad compliance boundaries ex : canda, us 

azure geo-redundant storages : replicates data to a secondary region automatically, ensuring that data is durable even in the event  that the primary region isnt recoverable

a region will generally contain 3 availablity zones

A VPN gateway is a specific type of virtual network gateway that is used to send encrypted traffic between an Azure virtual network and
an on-premises location over the public Internet.

The Pricing Calculator is used to determine the exact costs of specific Azure services.

Application Insights, a feature of Azure Monitor, is an extensible Application Performance Management (APM) service for developers and DevOps professionals.
Use it to monitor your live applications. It will automatically detect performance anomalies and includes powerful analytics tools to help you
diagnose issues and to understand what users actually do with your app.

Azure Synapse Analytics is a data warehouse and big data analytics. So it technically does perform analytics, but its a managed solution
 it does not build, test, and deploying custom analytics solutions.

Azure release their apps as Private preview, Public preview and then General availability

Azure advisor makes recommendations on the following 5 categories:
High Availability
Security
Performance
Cost
Operational Excellence

A network security group contains security rules that allow or deny inbound network traffic to,
 or outbound network traffic from, several types of Azure resource

IoT Central is an IoT application platform that reduces the burden and cost of developing, managing, and maintaining enterprise-grade IoT solutions.
The web UI lets you monitor device conditions, create rules, and manage millions of devices and their data throughout their life cycle

The Cloud Adoption Framework is a collection of documentation, implementation guidance, best practices, and tools that are proven guidance from Microsoft
designed to accelerate your cloud adoption journey.

Azure IAM is Azure Role-Based Access control (RBAC). Work for Azure subscription, to manage Azure resources.

A local network gateway represents the hardware or software VPN device in your local network. Use this with a connection to set up a site-to-site VPN connection
between an Azure virtual network and your local network.

Azure Monitor helps you maximize the availability and performance of your applications and services. It delivers a comprehensive solution for collecting, analyzing,
and acting on telemetry from your cloud and on-premises environments.

Azure Application Gateway is a web traffic load balancer that enables you to manage traffic to your web applications.

Azure Databricks is a fast, easy, and collaborative Apache Spark-based big data analytics service designed for data science and data engineering.
It is the only option that can host machine learning workloads.

Azure Blobs: A massively scalable object store for text and binary data. Also includes support for big data analytics through Data Lake Storage Gen2.

Azure Files: Managed file shares for cloud or on-premises deployments.

Azure Queues: A messaging store for reliable messaging between application components.

Azure Disks: Block-level storage volumes for Azure VMs.

 Tags provide extra information, or metadata, about your resources.



for services information :

https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/intro-to-azure-fundamentals/tour-of-azure-services

















